> Still in progress

## Machine Learning Results

To predict disease outcomes, machine learning modelling was performed. Predictions were made to detect normal and cancer samples and distinguish between cancer grades and cancer cell types. Data preprocessing techniques were performed to prepare the data for modelling. The preprocessing technique depended on the model. For instance, standardisation was performed for linear regression models. Two models: logistic regression and random forest models were used. To reduce the number of features, expressed genes with p-value < 0.05 were selected. Further feature selection was done by exploiting the inherent feature selection capabilities in the prediction models. For instance, the LASSO feature selection model was applied for the linear model while the feature importance feature of random forests was applied by recursively dropping features with scores equal to zero until a feature with non-zeros was reached.

The gene expression dataset was split into train and test sets (75/25), where the training set was used to develop a model and the test set was used to evaluate their performance. Performance was evaluated based on six metrics: accuracy, recall, precision, F1, Area under the receiver's operating characteristics (AUROC) and specificity. The precision-recall curve, AUROC curve and confusion matrix were used to visualise model performance. In addition, to select optimal features, a hyperparameter tuning technique was applied and the optimal parameter set with the highest AUROC score was selected as the best model and used to fit the train data and predict the test data.
